---
title: Brag Document 2023
date: 2023-12-27 7:24:34 0
tags: [BragDoc, 2023, githug, Go, TDD]
description: My first full lesson
---

Hi folks and future myself. I have been busy during the latter half of 2023.

So after browsing through a lot of Web Development and Machine Learning and everything else that my college promises to teach but fails to miserably. I always had a lot of interest in building apps that I could call industry grade. Consumer proof. That an actual user can use and also wants to use. None of that shitty government type. I want to learn stuff that people actually appreciate about. I learnt python and I still like python a lot. It's a remarkable language. Yet there seemed to be something missing.

I again found myself browsing through blogs and youtube videos suggesting "The best language to learn in 2023". I was honestly fed up with going back and forth. Learning a language, getting comfortable with it. And then poof! What do I do with it?

Another hello world? Maybe a game (which I actually did make) but really what do I do. I asked my friends if we can build something. They never deny but they really are busy. Again to continue the cycle and get another skill in my arsenal. I switched to Go. Found a few tutorials online. Found a few really good ones. But still progress was slower than expected. I needed someone to grill me into doing things on time. Someone I have to be accountable to. Well I didn't have to look too far. Turns out, my family is filled with great engineers and scientists. I never realised that in the face of a playful and caring older cousin was a tech genius hiding. I asked him to mentor me. Thinking I will be a bit more serious that way and boy was that a good decision.

My journey began with him accessing my current situation what he concluded to be "Pathetic". He can be outspoken sometimes which is both good and bad. He taught me one of the most important skill for a programmer to learn before anything else. `Git`. I did know git a little bit. But I always feared to make a branch as to what might happen if I fuck up. Not the bravest of heart I agree. Still I kept using git the old way. Only commits. Nothing more than that. Moreover I never actually used `Git`. Just thought it was a fancy thing adult programmers do. So I did it anyway. He instructed me to learn `Git`. And not just know about a few commands but actually understand `Git`. He gave me two resources.
* [Githug](https://github.com/Gazler/githug)
* [Pro Git book](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2)

I managed to finish githug and it was absoulutely amazing. `Git` is just so much things and once we learn it, it changes your perspective about coding. It enables you to make mistakes. Take chances. Fool around and get to know the problem statement better. 

October 13 marked the end of my githug journey. The great thing about my githug journey is if you do play it and reach all the way through level #56. It is not a level to solve. This level is the hardest. Because this level wants you to contribute to githug repository. This level teaches you to contribute and I managed to [complete it](https://github.com/Gazler/githug/commits?author=Rahul-NITD)!
It was a simple change actually. Just a README.md edit. Still it was my first ever open source contribution and I was head over heels for it.